[editor]
name = "Chuying Wu"
degree = "Undergraduate, 2023"

[article.1]
title = "A REM-active basal ganglia circuit that regulates anxiety"
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2024.06.010"
authors = "Wei Ba, Mathieu Nollet, Chunyu Yin, Xiao Yu"
journal = "Current Biology"
publish = "Volume 34, issue 15, 5 Aug 2024, Pages 3301-3314"
category = "Emotion"
summary = "为了确定大脑中一种新的 REM 睡眠调节回路并研究其功能意义，本研究进行了行为测试以评估慢性 REM 睡眠限制后的焦虑样行为，发现通过该回路慢性减少 REM 睡眠会增加焦虑和对厌恶刺激的敏感性。"
abstract = "Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep has been hypothesized to promote emotional resilience, but any neuronal circuits mediating this have not been identified. We find that in mice, somatostatin (Som) neurons in the entopeduncular nucleus (EPSom)/internal globus pallidus are predominantly active during REM sleep. This unique REM activity is both necessary and sufficient for maintaining normal REM sleep. Inhibiting or exciting EPSom neurons reduced or increased REM sleep duration, respectively. Activation of the sole downstream target of EPSom neurons, Vglut2 cells in the lateral habenula (LHb), increased sleep via the ventral tegmental area (VTA). A simple chemogenetic scheme to periodically inhibit the LHb over 4 days selectively removed a significant amount of cumulative REM sleep. Chronic, but not acute, REM reduction correlated with mice becoming anxious and more sensitive to aversive stimuli. Therefore, we suggest that cumulative REM sleep, in part generated by the EP → LHb → VTA circuit identified here, could contribute to stabilizing reactions to habitual aversive stimuli."
keywords = "basal ganglia, habenula, ventral tegmental area, rapid eye movement sleep, non-rapid eye movement sleep, somatostatin neurons, Vglut2 neurons, anxiety, defensive behavior, emotion"

[article.2]
title = "Fear, defense, and emotion: A neuroethological understanding of the negative valence research domain criteria."
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1037/amp0001354"
authors = "Michael S. Fanselow, Ann N. Hoffman"
journal = "American Psychologist"
publish = "Volume 79, issue 5, Jul-Aug 2024, Pages 725-734"
category = "Emotion"
summary = "本文探讨了捕食临近理论（PICT）与RDoC的负性效价构念之间的对应关系，特别是如何通过不同威胁水平解释防御行为。作者提出了扩展RDoC的建议，并强调了情绪状态与杏仁核活动的关系。通过神经行为学视角，研究可以推动对焦虑和压力障碍的病因及治疗的理解。"
abstract = "We describe the close correspondence between predatory imminence continuum theory (PICT) and the National Institute of Mental Health’s Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) for negative valence. RDoC’s negative valence constructs relate aversively motivated behavioral reactions to various levels of threat. PICT divides defensive responses into distinct modes that vary along a continuum of the psychological closeness of predatory threat. While there is a close correspondence between PICT modes and negative valence threat constructs, based on PICT, we describe some potential elaborations of RDoC constructs. Both have consonant views of fear and anxiety and provide explicit distinctions between these emotional states, relating them to specific defensive behaviors and functions. We describe recent data that causally implicate human subjective emotional states with amygdala activity, which is also critical for defensive behavior. We conclude that attention to neuroethological views of defense can advance our understanding of the etiology and treatment of anxiety and stress disorders. "
keywords = "Research Domain Criteria, predatory imminence, fear, anxiety, panic"

[article.3]
title = "Emotion regulation strategies and psychological health across cultures."
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1037/amp0001354"
authors = "Tamir, Maya Ito, Atsuki Miyamoto, Yuri Chentsova-Dutton"
journal = "American Psychologist"
publish = "Volume 79, issue 5, Jul-Aug 2024, Pages 748-764"
category = "Emotion, Culture"
summary = "本文通过跨文化研究，探讨了七种情绪调节策略与心理健康的关系，发现部分策略（如反刍、表达抑制）在不同文化背景下对心理健康的影响存在显著差异，尤其是在个人主义和集体主义文化之间。这强调了文化背景在理解情绪调节和心理健康中的重要作用。"
abstract = "Emotion regulation is important for psychological health and can be achieved by implementing various strategies. How one regulates emotions is critical for maximizing psychological health. Few studies, however, tested the psychological correlates of different emotion regulation strategies across multiple cultures. In a preregistered cross-cultural study (N = 3,960, 19 countries), conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic, we assessed associations between the use of seven emotion regulation strategies (situation selection, distraction, rumination, cognitive reappraisal, acceptance, expressive suppression, and emotional support seeking) and four indices of psychological health (life satisfaction, depressive symptoms, perceived stress, and loneliness). Model comparisons based on Bayesian information criteria provided support for cultural differences in 36% of associations, with very strong support for differences in 18% of associations. Strategies that were linked to worse psychological health in individualist countries (e.g., rumination, expressive suppression) were unrelated or linked to better psychological health in collectivist countries. Cultural differences in associations with psychological health were most prominent for expressive suppression and rumination and also found for distraction and acceptance. In addition, we found evidence for cultural similarities in 46% of associations between strategies and psychological health, but none of this evidence was very strong. Cultural similarities were most prominent in associations of psychological health with emotional support seeking. These findings highlight the importance of considering the cultural context to understand how individuals from diverse backgrounds manage unpleasant emotions. "
keywords = "culture, emotion, emotion regulation, depression, well-being"

[article.4]
title = "For imagination or disillusionment? The social compensation and social enhancement effects on dating anxiety for online daters who fear being single"
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2024.108251"
authors = "Li Zhong, Vincent Huang"
journal = "Computers in Human Behavior"
publish = "Volume 157, Aug 2024, Article 108251"
category = "Emotion"
summary = "为了研究单身恐惧在在线约会中的作用，本研究针对505名中国异性恋在线约会应用用户展开调查，结果显示单身恐惧与约会焦虑呈正相关。本文提出了一个解释在线约会者心理状态与幸福感之间关系的框架。"
abstract = "While some people choose to remain single, dating relationships and marriage remain dominant social expectations in many societies. This societal pressure can exacerbate the fear of being single, creating a vulnerable psychological state. Online dating provides opportunities for those who fear being single to meet new people and develop romantic relationships. And yet, we know little about how online daters' fear of being single is related to their well-being and how it could be alleviated or enhanced through online dating. Drawing on research on the social compensation and enhancement effects of the internet, this study proposes a path model investigating how the fear of being single was enhanced to affect online daters' well-being negatively and alleviated to contribute to well-being positively. An online survey of 505 Chinese heterosexual online dating application users revealed that the fear of being single was positively and directly associated with dating anxiety. Further, the fear of being single was related to increased imagined interaction through sexual relationship motivation. Surprisingly, it was related to decreased romantic disillusionment through increased romantic relationship motivation, showing a compensation effect. Romantic disillusionment, but not imagined interaction, was positively associated with dating anxiety. This study extends research on the social compensation and enhancement effects to online dating contexts. It contributes a framework that explains how a vulnerable psychological state is related to online daters’ well-being through motivational tendencies (sexual relationship vs. romantic relationship) and cognitive characteristics (imagined interaction vs. romantic disillusionment). "
keywords = "Fear of being single, Dating anxiety, Imagined interaction, Romantic disillusionment, Online dating"

[article.5]
title = "Rethinking the uncanny valley as a moderated linear function: Perceptual specialization increases the uncanniness of facial distortions"
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2024.108254"
authors = "Alexander Diel, Michael Lewis"
journal = "Computers in Human Behavior"
publish = "Volume 157, Aug 2024, Article 108254"
category = "Face"
summary = "本文提出，恐怖谷现象可以通过由知觉专门化调节的线性函数更好地解释，而不是传统的N形恐怖谷模型。通过实验，研究发现面部识别的专门化能够显著影响面部扭曲带来的恐怖感，这一更简化的模型比传统理论更精确，并且与神经认知理论兼容。"
abstract = '''The relationship between artificial entities' human likeness and aesthetic preference is thought to be best modelled by an N-shaped cubic "uncanny valley" function, which however suffers from conceptual criticisms and lack of parsimony. Here it is argued that uncanniness effects may instead be modelled by a linear function of deviation moderated by perceptual specialization. The two models are compared in an experiment with five incrementally distorted face types (cartoon, CG, drawing, real, robot). Recognition performance for upright and inverted faces were used as a specialization measure. Specialization significantly moderated the linear effect of distortion on uncanniness, and could explain the data better than a conventional uncanny valley. The uncanny valley may thus be better understood as a moderated linear function of specialization sensitizing the uncanniness of deviating stimuli. This simpler yet more accurate model is compatible with neurocognitive theories and can explain uncanniness effects beyond the conventional uncanny valley. '''
keywords = "Face processing, Inversion effect, Moderated linear function, Specialization, Uncanny valley"

