[editor]
name = "Xinyan Pan"
degree = "Undergraduate, 2023"

[article.1]
title = "Temporal distortion for angry faces: Testing visual attention and action preparation accounts"
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1177/17470218231172856"
authors = "Jason Tipples, Michael Lupton, and David George"
journal = "Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology"
publish = "Volume 77, Issue 9"
category = "face"
summary = "与中性面孔相比，人们通常会高估愤怒面孔的持续时间。当前研究的一个新特点是加入了旨影响时间判断的辅助操作，即视觉线索（实验 1）和行动准备（实验 2）。研究发现视觉提示和准备行动增加了对愤怒面孔的时间高估效应。"
abstract = "When asked to judge the duration of a face people typically overestimate the duration of angry compared with neutral faces. A novel feature of the current research was the inclusion of secondary manipulations designed to distort timing performance namely the effects of visual cues (Experiment 1) and action preparedness (Experiment 2). Furthermore, to establish whether the effects are multiplicative with duration, the effects were examined across two duration ranges (200-800 and 400-1,600 ms). Visual cues and instructions to prepare to act increased the tendency to judge faces as lasting longer. Experiment 1 revealed an unexpected underestimation effect for angry faces presented for short durations (200-800 ms). However, the effect was not replicated in Experiment 2 where the results were generally consistent with either an increase the speed of a pacemaker mechanism that resides within an internal clock or the widening of an attentional gate-the temporal overestimation effect for angry faces grew in magnitude from the short to long duration. Experiment 2 also showed that the temporal overestimation for angry faces was reduced in magnitude when participants were asked to prepare to either push or pull a joystick."
keywords = "visual attention, action preparation, time perception"

[article.2]
title = "Music and speech time perception of musically trained individuals: The effects of audio type, duration of musical training, and rhythm perception"
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1177/17470218231205857"
authors = "Miria N Plastira, Michalis P Michaelides, and Marios N Avraamides"
journal = "Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology"
publish = "Volume 77, Issue 9"
category = "sound"
summary = "在本研究中，作者考察了 97 名受过音乐训练的被试评估充满音乐或语音刺激的材料中出现间隔的时长的能力。结果表明，间隔的时长被低估的情况是一致的，而且音乐训练的时间长短与评估间隔时长的精确性之间存在关联。此外，语音音轨的评估总体上比音乐音轨更准确、更长，表明唤醒和刺激的愉悦性对时间感知可能产生影响。"
abstract = "The perception of time is a subjective experience influenced by various factors such as individual psychology, external stimuli, and personal experiences, and it is often assessed with the use of the reproduction task that involves individuals estimating and reproducing the duration of specific time intervals. In the current study, we examined the ability of 97 musically trained participants to reproduce the durations of temporal intervals that were filled with music or speech stimuli. The results revealed a consistent pattern of durations being underestimated, and an association was observed between the duration of musical training and the level of accuracy in reproducing both music and speech tracks. In addition, speech tracks were overall reproduced more accurately, and as longer, than music tracks. Structural models suggested the presence of two, highly correlated, dimensions of time perception for speech and music stimuli that were related to the duration of musical training, but not with self-reported rhythm perception. The possible effects of arousal and pleasantness of stimuli on time perception are discussed within the framework of an internal clock model."
keywords = "time perception, music, speech"

[article.3]
title = "The influence of affective voice on sound distance perception."
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1037/xhp0001222"
authors = "Kroczek, L. O. H., Roßkopf, S., Stärz, F., Blau, M., van de Par, S., & Mühlberger, A"
journal = "Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance"
publish = "50(9), 918-933"
category = "sound"
summary = "作者提出了情感性听觉声音（愤怒与中性）是否会影响声音距离感知的问题。他们进行了两次 VR 实验，在不告诉被试具体方位的情况下用扬声器呈现听觉刺激。结果表明，被试估计愤怒声音刺激位置的距离大于估计中性声音刺激位置的距离。情绪或动机偏差都不能解释这些结果；相反，距离感知似乎依赖于听者对声音情感和声学特征之间关系的表征。"
abstract = "Affective stimuli in our environment indicate reward or threat and thereby relate to approach and avoidance behavior. Previous findings suggest that affective stimuli may bias visual perception, but it remains unclear whether similar biases exist in the auditory domain. Therefore, we asked whether affective auditory voices (angry vs. neutral) influence sound distance perception. Two VR experiments (data collection 2021-2022) were conducted in which auditory stimuli were presented via loudspeakers located at positions unknown to the participants. In the first experiment (N = 44), participants actively placed a visually presented virtual agent or virtual loudspeaker in an empty room at the perceived sound source location. In the second experiment (N = 32), participants were standing in front of several virtual agents or virtual loudspeakers and had to indicate the sound source by directing their gaze toward the perceived sound location. Results in both preregistered experiments consistently showed that participants estimated the location of angry voice stimuli at greater distances than the location of neutral voice stimuli. We discuss that neither emotional nor motivational biases can account for these results. Instead, distance estimates seem to rely on listeners' representations regarding the relationship between vocal affect and acoustic characteristics."
keywords = "affective stimuli, auditory perception"

[article.4]
title = "Cathedrals of sound: Predictors of the sublime and the beautiful in music, images, and music with images."
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1037/aca0000712"
authors = "Hur, Young-Jin, Medeisyte, Radvile,& McManus, I. Chris"
journal = "Psychology of Aesthetics, Creativity, and the Arts"
publish = "Sep 23, 2024, No Pagination Specified"
category = "music"
summary = "在之前的心研究中，崇高和美这两种不同的审美反应形成了鲜明对比，然而音乐中的相关研究确是罕见的。本研究表明，小调和大调的音乐因素分别预测了升华和美感。而在视觉和音乐混合刺激下，视觉部分的崇高性和美感的影响是音乐部分的三倍。虽然升华和美可能是相关的审美体验，但它们可能通过不同的机制发挥作用。"
abstract = "The separate aesthetic responses of sublimity and beauty have been distinguished by philosophers (e.g., Burke, 1759/2008) and explored in recent psychological studies using visual images (e.g., Hur et al., 2022). In these works, sublimity, an experience involving astonishment or grandeur, has been contrasted with beauty, which is often associated with prettiness or cuteness. However, empirical studies of sublimity and beauty in music are rare, as are aesthetic responses to stimuli of mixed visual and musical components. The present article examines two questions. Firstly, what are the musical factors that predict sublimity and beauty in musical stimuli? Specifically, what are the contributions of style (Bach vs. Chopin vs. Schoenberg), mode type (major key vs. minor key vs. atonal), and tempo (slow vs. fast)? Secondly, what are the contributions of the visual and musical components in predicting the sublimity and beauty of mixed visual-musical stimuli? For music, mode type was the predominant predictor, with sublimity predicted by the minor key, and beauty by the major key. In the evaluation of mixed visual-musical stimuli, the influence of the sublimity and beauty of the visual component was up to three times as strong as that of the musical component. There was also judgment-type selectivity; the sublimity levels of visual-musical stimuli were predicted by the sublimity levels of the visual and musical components, but not by the beauty levels of the visual and musical components (and vice versa). While sublimity and beauty may be related aesthetic experiences, the present results demonstrate that sublimity and beauty may also operate through different mechanisms."
keywords = "music, aesthetic response, visual, musical"
